income inequality lorez,gini and quintiles



in this section of the course what we're
talking about is income inequality in
other words why is it that some people
make more than others and as a part of
this topic we're going to be talking
about poverty what it means how its
measured and discrimination as one of
the reasons why some people make more
than others the first thing we have to
talk about before we talk about anything
about income inequality is that when we
discuss things like poverty and income
inequality we're not usually talking
about individuals and how their incomes
are different we're usually talking
about households so let's first talk for
a minute about what a household is so
when we talk about an income
distribution how some people make more
than others and we're going to look at
one of these in a few different ways in
a minute we're talking about household
income and equality so we have to
understand what a household is before we
get going but a brief definition is that
a household includes all the persons who
occupy a housing unit
what's a housing unit well a housing
unit is a house an apartment a mobile
home a group of rooms or a single room
that is occupied or if vacant is
intended for occupancy as separate
living quarters so it could be a house
an apartment a mobile home or it could
even be a dorm room so when we start
thinking about some households making
more than others we have to include all
the different versions of households and
we have to think about all those in our
minds that when we measure incomes for
some of these households it's going to
be a dorm room a single person living in
a single dorm room perhaps all the way
up to there might be a mansion with a
hundred people living there several
generations in a large house keep that
in the back of your mind when you think
about income inequality we always have
to have in the back of our minds what it
is we're measuring so we're measuring
household incomes we add up all the
incomes of all the people living in
whatever it is that we're calling a
household and those things are very
diverse
so what are the causes of income
inequality is just the fact that
households are unequal we're talking
about a lot of different things here
when we say the word household we're not
talking about some unified nineteen
forties ideal of a mummy and a daddy and
two and a half kids living in a
household right okay now let's look at
an income distribution as a histogram so
this is a histogram showing for each
income grouping in $5,000 increments
here what percent of the households in
the United States in the year 2014
earned amounts in different income
groups here so we see that about almost
four percent of households earned less
than five thousand dollars about three
and a half percent between 5,000 and
$10,000 etc and then when we get all the
way up to the high end here we see that
there's about five and a half percent if
we look over here at the y-axis about
five and a half percent of households
total income was $200,000 and more the
median income tells us that 50 percent
of households earned more than this
amount and fifty percent of households
earn less than this amount and this is
at about fifty three thousand six
hundred fifty seven dollars here the
mean the average if you add up all the
income of all the households and divide
it by the number of households we get
about seventy five thousand seven
hundred thirty eight dollars so the
average income about seventy-six
thousand dollars the median household
income about 53 or 54 thousand dollars
it's just telling us that half the
households earn more than this half the
households total earn less than this so
if we were going to have a society where
there was no income inequality what
would have to happen is that all
households would have to be in the same
group right we might have every single
household have a total income of $76,000
we wouldn't have this spread out
distribute
here is that what we want would that be
somehow fair if every single household
earned seventy six thousand dollars well
in my opinion the answer is no because
some of these households would be one
person living alone in a dorm room and
some of these households might be again
three generations of grandparents and
parents and children you might have 25
people living in a house I don't think
it's fair for every single household
type to be earning the same amount of
money because it doesn't make sense
we're not holding the number of people
in a household constant right so this is
another thing to keep in mind when we
talk about income inequality what's the
goal is it to make incomes perfectly
equal and if so what does that even mean
so let's talk about some ways to measure
income inequality so there are a lot of
different ways we can measure income
inequality dozens that I know of but
let's go through the standard easy kind
of way and this is the most common way
you see this kind of thing done
first thing is we divide households into
income quintiles what this means is we
take all the households add up the total
income and we line them in order from
the lowest total income to the highest
total income households and we divide
them in two quintiles and what this
means is we're going to divide them into
five groups since quint means five so
we're going to take the bottom 20% of
households the lowest income 20% and
then the next 20% so if you look at this
table here the we might call them the
poorest 20% lower middle 20% the middle
20% the upper-middle 20% and the highest
20% of incomes ok second thing we do
this is named after a guy named Lorenz
he came up with the idea of making a
graph called a Lorenz curve and what we
do is we add up the total percent of the
income earned by all the households from
the
poorest to the richest and we're going
to do that a couple of times here so
that we get an idea of how this is done
and what it means so let's go ahead and
get started and let's make a few Lorenz
curves here so let's suppose we were
working with some data here from several
countries first country a country a is a
perfectly equal country at least in
terms of households so let's assume
there's some government and they go
through and they ensure that every
single household in their country earns
exactly the same amount of money so
there's going to be no income inequality
so what's going to happen when we line
up all these households from the lowest
income households to the highest income
households well it doesn't matter what
order we put them in because they all
learn the same amount so if we take the
poorest 20% or the lowest income 20% and
we add up what percent of the total
income in the nation do they earn what
we're going to get is that they earn 20%
of the total income right the poorest
20% of households get 20% of the income
a fifth of the households get a fifth of
the total income and then the next group
since they're exactly the same they're
also going to get 20% so we just take
the total income of the country we
divide the households into five groups
and each of the five groups gets a fifth
of the income 20% of the income now in
order to make this thing we call a
Lorenz curve we need to make a
cumulative distribution of the income
now what this means is we're going to
add up so cumulative means add up as you
go along from the beginning to the end
think about a cumulative GPA from the
beginning of your career as a student to
the end the GPA kind of accumulates or
gets added up the number of credit hours
you get adds up so you might look at
your transcript and see a cumulative
earned hours number on there so in order
to make a cumulative distribution you're
trying to answer the question what's the
total percent of income that is earned
by this
or all the groups earlier in the list so
the first one here is simply going to be
the first number twenty percent what's
the total amount of income in this first
group or the group's earlier well it's
just this first twenty percent here then
when we add in the next group we take
this twenty percent and we add in the
twenty percent to the next group and we
get forty percent cumulative adding up
as we go along and that forty percent
means that in this second group or
earlier they are sharing a total of
forty percent of the income and then we
add in the twenty percent to the next
group this first example it's a bit
silly but it makes an important point
you'll see when we get there we're just
adding up as we go along and the last
number and a cumulative distribution
must always be a hundred percent telling
us that all the group's share all of the
income now what's this going to look
like if we graph it on a graph like this
where on the x axis we have cumulative
families from the lowest income to the
highest income on the x-axis and then
we're putting the cumulative amount of
income they share on the y axis well if
we graph all those points they're just
gonna be the points on this straight
line I've already graphed the bottom 20%
share 20% of the income the bottom 40 40
60 60 etc so we get this straight line
to connect all these this is what
country A's Lorenz curve would look like
it just helps us visualize the income
distribution so now we've learned
something that if you're looking at a
country whose income distribution is
perfectly equal the Lorenz curve looks
like a perfect straight line in these
graphs we always put a straight line for
reference to help our eye see what would
an income distribution look like if it
was perfectly equal and we call this
line the line of perfect
quality now no country on earth is going
to be exactly like this but we put this
line in there so that we can visualize
how close a country is to perfect
equality let's look at country B here
country B is a very different country so
in country B the poorest or the lowest
income 20% of the country earning Li 4
percent of the income and the lower
middle 20% they also only earn 4 percent
of the income and the middle class will
they earn 4 percent of the income and
the upper middle class they are in 4
percent of the income and then there's a
20% of this country that's like the
elite the ruling class perhaps and
they're the ones who get all the rest of
the income eighty-four percent this
country is not very equal what we might
be thinking of here is a country where
most people are rural they live way out
in the country they're poor farmers and
then there are a small amount of people
who live and say a large city and these
people are part of the nobility or the
ruling class or the educated class or
something like that
but 80 percent of the country these
bottom four groups the bottom 80% are
all very poor they're very equal but
then most of the income eighty-four
percent of the total is had by just this
top twenty percent of elites all right
well let's calculate this cumulative
distribution and graph it and let's see
what it looks like so we always start a
cumulative distribution with just the
percent in the bottom category here so
it's going to be 4 percent saying that
in this first category the poorest 20%
or before will the only category share 4
percent of the income and then we add up
as we go along this 4 percent plus this
4 percent 8 percent so the bottom 40%
share 8 percent
the income we can tell that's not equal
the bottom 60% we add in this 4% the

bottom 60% share only 12% to the income
and then we add in the next group 16%
total so the bottom 80% of people in
this country only have access to 16
percent of the total income and then the
last number is always a hundred percent
because we're adding in this 84 percent
so there's our cumulative distribution
and now what we do is we graph this
cumulative distribution on this graph
right over here so what we're going to
do is try to eyeball this as close as we
can we can't be perfect when we're
making a graph by hand like this so the
poorest 20% only get 4 percent of the
income so that's gonna be way below
halfway here right so let's say that's
about 4 percent and put a dot about
right here and then the next point is
gonna say that the bottom 40% only get
about 8 percent so about right there
less than halfway because halfway would
be 10% the bottom 60% a little more than
halfway is that's going to be this 12
percent here the bottom 80% share 16

percent of the income all right we're
getting almost up to the 20 there and
then the bottom 100% share 100 percent
of the income so here's our last point
is always going to be up here on that
line of equality and then usually we
also put a point down here at 0 0 so
let's put a point down there and then we
connect all these dots there we go so

this would be the Lorenz curve for
country B this country that has a very
unequal income distribution so this kind
of graph helps us to visualize that this
second country their income distribution
is very far away from this line of
perfect equal
quality that straight line or that
45-degree line sometimes we'll call it
now after Lorenz came up with this idea
an Italian named Corrado Jeannie said
hey you know looking at a graph is cool
but how about coming up with a way to
calculate some number instead of asking
people how unequal does this look to you
let's come up with a way to calculate a
number to represent how unequal the
incomes actually are so Corrado Jeannie
came up with this following idea
he said let's draw a box here that looks
like a triangle so this purple side here
purple side on the bottom and that line
of perfect equality make up a triangle
let's suppose we calculated the area of
that triangle what's the formula for the
area of a triangle
well it's 1/2 times base times height so
we could easily calculate the area of
that triangle and corrado Jeannie said
let's compare the area of the whole
triangle there to how much of the area
is inside this bit right here so we want

to compare this blue shape which in this
case is a different kind of triangle to
that larger purple triangle and ask the
question what percent of the total area
does this blue shape take up here's what
we're talking about if we label this
area in the middle to be a that's area a
and down here the outside the rest of
this large triangle is B we want to know
how big is a compared to the total size
of the triangle which is a plus B we
want to know that ratio we call that the
Jeannie ratio or the Gini coefficient so
let's try to guesstimate about how big
that is just using your eyes ask
yourself if I look at that a area what

percent of the total triangle does it
take up let me kind of hell
guide you here does it look like this a
is bigger than half of the total
triangle or less than half of the total
and to me it looks like it's bigger than
half all right do you think it's like
90% of the total triangle I don't think
it's quite 90% do you think it's 80% 70%
60% what's your guess to me it looks

like it's around two-thirds somewhere in
the neighborhood of about two-thirds of
the total and hopefully you can kind of
agree with me there because that's
pretty close to being exactly right so
the Gini coefficient for country B here
would be about point six four in this
case now how do I know that well I have
computer programs that can calculate it
for us we could also do some geometry
and we could calculate these areas right
it's something we could do it's not
something we're going to do by hand in
this class except we might look at an
example or two where it's really really
easy to see what's going on okay but
mostly we just want to be able to
visualize and understand the bigger that
area a is what does telling us is that a
country's income is getting more and
more and more unequal as we get away
from this line of perfect equality here
as we drag that down we're getting more
unequal now the worst case scenario
would be what if this area a took up the
entire triangle now theoretically the
only way for that happen would be if no
one in the country earned any money so
the bottom forty percent are nothing 60%
nothing eighty percent nothing and then
the only person that earns anything is
like one king Shh all right it would
shoot up like that the total area would
be in this area here so the Gini
coefficient as it gets larger this area
gets larger and that means there's more
and more and more inequality all right
let's do one for the United States here
so let me show you
what the income distribution looks like
for the United States approximately so
first thing let's mention just in case
you are wondering again we're talking
about household incomes here what's the
difference between household and what an
individual makes well the median
earnings for an individual person in the
United States in 2017 was about $45,000
so that's just one person but since many
households have more than one income
earner household income the median is
going to be larger than that so let's
divide the households in the United
States into quintiles here's
approximately what this would look like
so the total household income for the
lowest 20% of households is between 0
and 22,000 roughly the next 20% 20 2001
to 41,000 middle 20% forty-one to 68,000

the next 20% 68,000 111 approximately
and to get into the highest twenty
percent the highest quintile you need to
make over a hundred and eleven thousand
dollars in the household as a total now
an easy way to visualize this
distribution that I came up with I just
sat down and said what are the simplest
numbers we could use to kind of think
about if the total income in the United
States was thirty three say thirty three
dollars or thirty three billion or
thirty three trillion then the bottom
20% would get one out of thirty three or
about three percent of the total income
the next group of households would get
about three out of thirty three which is
around nine percent to the total income
and the middle-class group would get
about five out of thirty three or about
fifteen percent seven out of 33 or about
twenty one percent for the upper-middle
class group if that's what we want to
think of a mass and then this highest
group it's about 17 at a thirty three a
little more than half of the total
income fifty-two percent is this okay
this is part of this not just measuring
things but thinking about how do I react
to this as a human being living in the
United States is this okay that this
bottom twenty
of households only gets three percent of
the income and that these households
only earn zero to $22,000 is that
terrible well we have to think about who
these bottom two groups are most likely
to be again think about what households
are many many households in the United
States are dorm rooms and I'm sorry but
I spent a long time is a very very poor
student if your income and your
household is low more or less by choice
I mean you're choosing not to earn a
high income right now because you're
going to school and you're investing in
yourself I don't think that's a travesty
I don't think that's something that we
should lose sleep over at night many of
these households in the bottom two
groups are going to be people who are
retired and so they don't have a high
income either again if you're retired
you're not working of course I don't
want you to be in a state where you are
starving to death but your income is
going to be low one thing to keep in
mind is when we're talking about income
inequality we're not talking about
wealth let's think about what the
difference between income and wealth is
income is how much money you're bringing
in how much you're earning each month
and so if you're a college student or if
you're retired you're not gonna have a
lot of money coming in each month wealth
a lot of retired people they might own
their home own their cars have it all
paid off and they might have millions of
dollars sitting in a retirement account
sitting in the bank or invested in the
stock market that wealth is not the same
thing as income so you might be Bill
Gates and if you have your asset
structured in such a way that you don't
actually have money coming in to your
household you have it in some kind of
investment where it's just sitting there
you could possibly be in one of the
lower income quintiles here even though
you're very wealthy so because you're
not earning a lot of money doesn't mean
you're starving doesn't mean you're
homeless
it just means that you don't have a lot
of money coming in so to the extent that
there are going to be
some people in these lower groups where
it could be a single mother and three
kids maybe we should be concerned about
that
we'll talk a little bit more about that
in a minute so let's fill in these
percentages in cumulative percentages
over here on our graph and then let's
graph and see what is the United States
Lorenz curve look like and what is the
Gini coefficient for the United States
look like to us all right so let's place
these numbers down here on the graphs
graph says that the bottom 20% or an
only 3% of the income so way down here
the bottom 40% earned about 12% okay a
little more than half way bottom 60%
earned about 27% that's going to be
somewhere in here the bottom 80% earned
almost 50% but not quite so that's going
to be right in here and then our last
dot up here and then we put our first
dot down here at 0 0 and we connect
these dots all right so let's look at

what this is telling us and let's draw
our larger triangle here to help us
visualize in the United States
approximately what is the Gini
coefficient so when we look at that
ratio of the area a over the total a
plus B what does it look like to you
a over a plus B in other words what
percent approximately of this total
triangle does that a look like it takes
up does it look like it's more than 50%
or less than 50% to you and to me it
looks like it's a little less than half
when we look at all this area down here
that looks like that looks like a little
bit more than half of the total area so
if you calculate this Gini coefficient
for the United States you're going to
get that that ratio is somewhere around
point 4 5 for the United States so a
little less than
half what does the Gini coefficient mean
what does that point four or five
actually tell us nothing really it's
just a number and the only way to really
understand what it means so it's not a
percent really although some people do
call it a percent all the Gini
coefficient is is telling us what
percent of this picture is taken up by
this lens area here a that's all it
means so don't give it a whole lot of
extra interpretation over and above that
so all you can really do is compare one
country to another and how high is my
Gini coefficient compared to the GE
coefficient of another country so let's
try to get a little bit of a feel for
what these Gini coefficients mean is
this point four or five in the United
States high low somewhere in the middle
so to give you an idea of the range of
these numbers zero again is perfect
equality you're never going to see that
one is perfect inequality you're never
going to see that in the real world
either but practically speaking when you
look at Gini coefficients around the
world and through time about the lowest
you're ever going to see is about a
point two to the lowest income
inequality we see is usually in Nordic
countries like Finland and Sweden and
the highest income inequality places are
places like South Africa
Lesotho Haiti and those are at about a
point six three so theoretically the
Gini coefficient could be between zero
and one practically speaking maybe point
two two point seven is about the biggest
you're ever going to see is 0.7 lowest
I've ever seen is about a point two so
when we look at the United States here
at about 0.45 or somewhere in the middle
there a lot of people complain about the
United States having a very unequal
income yeah compared to Sweden and
Finland and Norway of course but there
are a lot of places that are worse off
so this Gini coefficient over here of
0.64
that we drew for this country B where it
was four
4% 4% 4% and then the top 20% had 80% of
the income that's not too far off from
what we see in countries like South
Africa Lesotho and Haiti so I've
provided a link here if you want to look
at some other Gini coefficients probably
the easiest way is just to go into
Google and Google Gini CIA the CIA has

something on their website called the
World Factbook and in the World Factbook
they have a long list of Gini
coefficients one of the bad things about
this list is that the dates are all over
the place so some of the data in their
lists come from the 1990s and some of it
from the 2000s or 2010's in some of
these countries it's kind of hard to get
income data that's very believable or
very recent so they just use the data
that they can find pretty easily so
let's have a look at a few of these Gini
coefficients from the CIA World Factbook
as we were talking about Lesotho South
Africa Micronesia Haiti or here at the
top with the most unequal incomes with
high Gini coefficients a lot of times
you'll see Gini coefficients multiplied
by a hundred instead of being a number
between zero and one you can always tell
whether they've been multiplied because
if they haven't been multiplied they'll
be between zero and one if they've been
multiplied by a hundred you'll see them
as they are here like 60 55 okay so
going down the list chill a pretty
unequal Israel about forty two point

eight the United States here at forty
five as we were talking about are 0.45
and this have a quick look at some of
the most equal countries down here at
the bottom of the list
Finland Slovakia Slovenia Ukraine Sweden
Belgium Belarus Kazakhstan etc and these
Gini coefficients between about point
two and about point two six or 0.27 here
all right so here's just a look at that
Gini coefficient that we graphed one way
that you could
think about calculating the Gini
coefficient is by going into Excel as I
have done here and tell Excel that you
would like to find some kind of function
here that describes that Gini
coefficient curves so here we have a
polynomial with an X to the fourth X to
the third x squared and X term in it and
then we could use some fancy math in
order to calculate those areas but I
also want to show you what happens to
this Lorenz curve this Gini coefficient
when we take into account some things
that aren't normally taking into account
so when we talk about income and we ask
people these questions how much money
came into this household total in a
given year we don't take into account
the fact that many of those higher
income households pay a lot of that
money in taxes and also a lot of
lower-income households get a lot of
money coming in in terms of rent support
and food stamps and other sorts of
things
we'll talk a little bit more about this
when we talk about poverty when we
determine who is in poverty we don't
take into account a lot of the benefits
that people get that help them out that
make their lives a lot better so here's
what the Lorenz curve would look like if
we took those taxes that the high income
people pay into account and the benefits
that the lower income people get into
account and just comparing those two in
one graph the orange one is after the
people with high income pay a lot of
those taxes and transfers we see that
people in the upper group don't get
quite as large a share of the income
this lends this area a gets a little
smaller then if we just use income only
what does it look like the income in a
quality measure the Gini coefficient
would be if we use the orange compared
to the blue remember the blue gives us a
Gini coefficient of around 0.45 or 45

percent of the total area
it looks like a might be maybe five to
ten percent less so the United States if
we took into account the fact that we do
redress drew Butte income quite a bit in
ways that aren't picked up by the kinds
of questions we ask when we do these
surveys we might have a Gini coefficient
of maybe 0.35 or 0.4 rather than 0.45
now also within the United States itself
we have a lot of different places that
have more or less income inequality so
here we see that in California a lot of
income inequality why might that be well
we know there are a lot of very poor
people who live in California and also a
lot of very rich people who are either
in the tech industry or are in Hollywood
so California has quite a bit of income
inequality very rich and very poor Texas
has a lot of income inequality as does
most of the South here Mississippi
Alabama Georgia Virginia North Carolina
South Carolina are kind of in the middle
here about 0.47 or 0.48 a little bit
lower are states in the northwest places
like Maine Ohio Indiana Kansas Colorado
and the most equal places in the United
States are Utah Wyoming Nebraska and
Iowa Puerto Rico also a very unequal
part of the United States and Alaska
here fairly equal Alaska has probably
has that equality because if you live in
Alaska you earn money from the
government based on the oil profits from
the oil wells in Alaska and that helps
bring a lot of people who would be in a
very low income area to have higher
household incomes here's a map I made
this is using data that's pretty old now
this is from the year 2000 data and this
is calculating Gini coefficients for
every county in the United States so you
can see some counties that have very
high income inequality Los Angeles here
in the pain
has higher income inequality you can see
some of the ones that have more income
equality in the blue this is using that
same data from the year 2000 I
calculated for every county in the
United States so here's Gini
coefficients for North Carolina where I
live and I live in Greensboro and we're
kind of in the middle Gini coefficient
around 0.45 would be the white color
very high income inequality are going to
be red so here in the northeast of the
state very low income inequality the
lowest in the state I believe is Onslow
County on the coast but also a few of
these kind of out in the west central
area one interesting one to look at here
is this red county right here this is
Orange County and Orange County is where
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill is and this is a county where you
have a lot of very poor people as well
as a lot of very high income people live
in this county and lastly let's look at
income inequality over time in the
United States it's kind of hard to tell
what these numbers actually mean the a
lot of people say the income inequality
in the United States is getting worse
and looking at the Gini coefficients
they are they're getting higher nineteen
seventy point three nine two thousand
point four six now in 2007 the income
inequality actually went down and then
it started going back up again and this
is during the recession that we had a
lot of people with those high incomes
were hurt a lot and lost their jobs and
that made incomes more equal which
raises a question was that a good thing
that income inequality went down
whenever all those people with higher
incomes lost their jobs I don't think so
so there are a few ways you can bring
down income inequality and that would be
by hurting the people with high incomes
I don't think that's a good way to do it
another way to help reduce income
inequality would be to help the people
at the bottom - to bring them up
that's probably a much better way but
why is it very hard why do I say it's
very hard to tell the meaning of what's
going on here well because when we look
over this forty four year period here
from 1970 to 2014 and we see that the
income inequality is going up a lot has
been changing in the United States
during this time and let me just point
out a couple of things number one
remember that the household income is
what we use to calculate income
inequality what has happened to the
number of people in the average
household over these forty five years
well the average number of people in a
household has gone down from around
three and a half-ish to about two and a
half and if you have less people living
in a household you're probably going to
have more income inequality we have now
a lot more individual people living in
households we have a lot more single
parents raising kids and so that's going
to mean more households with less income
since there are just fewer people per
household on average so it's not
necessarily a bad thing when you have
more people choosing to live alone we
have fewer people choosing to get
married maybe that's just what makes
them happy but what that's going to do
when you have fewer people in households
and a lot more one or two people
households fewer family households it's
going to increase the measures that we
have of income inequality another big
change we've had in the United States is
immigration and this is not to say that
immigration is a bad thing we just have
to think about how immigration impacts
our measures of income inequality
there are really two main kinds of
immigrants when I think about
immigration number one there are a lot
of high income immigrants that are
brought into the country by tech firms
and engineering firms we have a shortage
of computer programmers a shortage of
lots of specific high end people in the
United States and a lot of people are
brought in by Google and Amazon on these
special visas for highly paid technical
people so that's one
large group of immigrants that we've had
coming into the United States so we're
bringing in a lot of people who are
making really high incomes well that's
going to increase income inequality on
the other hand we've also had a lot of
immigration into the United States from
people we might call either economic
refugees or political refugees people
coming in from places like Syria or
people coming in from Mexico who want to
make a better life for themselves and a
lot of these people not all certainly
but a lot of these people when they come
to the United States they don't speak
English they might have lower amounts of
education than the average American does
and it's going to take them a while to
figure out how to fit in and these
people are much more likely to have a
lower income so if you look at a period
of time and you have a lot of people
moving to a country that have very high
incomes and you have a lot of people
moving in that have very low incomes of
course that's going to increase the
amount of income inequality so we need
to think about how much of this increase
in income and equality that we're seeing
over time is due to the idea that the
rich are getting richer and the poor are
getting poorer and how much if it might
be just because there are fewer people
living in the average household and
there are different kinds of immigrants
moving into the country it's interesting
to think about and I haven't seen anyone
tried to do research on this topic to
try to figure out how much of this
increase comes from these various causes
that'd be a very interesting thing to do
all right so I'm going to wrap up this
video here and in the next video
we're going to look at our next topic
where we're going to ask the question
why is it that some individual people
make more money or less money than
others and we'll talk a little bit about
discrimination and education levels and
things like that and we'll focus on this
dangerous dangerous topic of the gender
wage gap so I hope you join me for that
video as always if you have any
questions or want any clarifications
please let me know I'll be happy to talk
to you about them otherwise
the best of luck with all your studies
guys


